feat: KILT logos & structure (#6)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/chain/collator.md

---
id: collator
title: Become a Collator
---

## Standard Hardware

The details of spiritnets benchmarks can be found [here](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/mashnet-node/tree/develop/runtimes/spiritnet/src/weights). Running your own [benchmarks](#Benchmarking-(optional))

- OS - Ubuntu 20.04.2
- CPU - AMD Ryzen 7 1700X

> - Storage - A NVMe solid state drive. Should be reasonably sized to deal with blockchain growth. Starting around 80GB - 160GB will be okay for the first six months of KILT's parachain and kusama relay chain, but will need to be re-evaluated every six months.

Reviewer: kusama should be Kusama

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Storage - A NVMe solid-state drive. Should be reasonably sized to deal with blockchain growth. Starting around 80GB - 160GB will be okay for the first six months of KILT's parachain and Kusama relay chain but will need to be re-evaluated every six months.
```

## Build

There are several ways to build and test a collator node. **These commands are based of commits.** The time needed to start a node depends on the method choosen. We will go through how to use a Docker image or compile directly from our mashnet-node repositry. Below are the following `chain_spec`:

- The `peregrine` chain will be matching the closest to our final chain
- The `spiritnet` chain will be the actual network after launch

Each has their own benchmarks to track the weight of transactions of the given networks.

### Walkthrough How to do the Setup

#### Run the Docker Image for a Collator

Docker can be used to run a collator.

<details>
  <summary>Peregrine network pull command</summary>

```bash=
docker pull kiltprotocol/peregrine:c82cb51b
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Westend WILT network pull command</summary>

```bash=
docker pull kiltprotocol/peregrine:0.2.0-d03db82
```

</details>

> <!-- The docker image can be run with existing commands, these can be found within the mashnet-net repositery [here](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/mashnet-node/blob/develop/docs/run-node.md#node-commands). -->

Reviewer: This is just commented out, should we remove it¿

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash=
docker run -p 127.0.0.1:9944:9944 -v ~/data:/data \
  kiltprotocol/peregrine:0.2.0-d03db82 \
  --ws-port=9944 \
  --rpc-cors=all \
  --rpc-methods=unsafe \
  --ws-external \
  --rpc-external \
  --unsafe-rpc-external \
  --chain=/node/dev-specs/kilt-parachain/kilt-westend.json \
  --runtime=spiritnet \
  --name "name of collator" \
  --bootnodes \
  /dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30360/p2p/12D3KooWRPR7q1Rgwurd4QGyUUbVnN4nXYNVzbLeuhFsd9eXmHJk \
  /dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30361/p2p/12D3KooWDAEqpTRsL76itsabbh4SeaqtCM6v9npQ8eCeqPbbuFE9 \
  --listen-addr=/ip4/0.0.0.0/tcp/30336 \
  --base-path ./db/parachain \
  --keystore-path ./keystore \
  --collator \
  -- \
  --listen-addr=/ip4/0.0.0.0/tcp/30333 \
  --chain=westend \
  --execution=wasm \
  --base-path ./db/relay
```
</details>

#### Compile Build

We recommend following the [repositry](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/mashnet-node). Below is the command to connect as a Collator in the root directory of the mashnet-node repository.

***Do not use master branch to compile the build. Either use `develop` or the following commit `c82cb51b3c8e20f13aa2f9dbd587890f5e31da97`.***

```bash
cargo build --release -p kilt-parachain
```

> You can find the executable file in `./target/release/kilt-parachain` after you build the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The executable file can be found in `./target/release/kilt-parachain` after building the project.
```

```

</details>

#### Bootnodes

Our different bootnodes for KILT.

The Peregrines Parachain bootnodes:

```bash=
--bootnodes \
/dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30340/p2p/12D3KooWALJtiCZzcUPVsCa5f5egGfQyFhPY67kKosDw95bJqK7M \
/dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30341/p2p/12D3KooWCRgcGtFRsvqxqgysiR6Ah9SAzUNkM12Ef9sy59ZEspSQ
```

The Peregrines relay chain bootnodes:

```bash=
--bootnodes \
/dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30350/p2p/12D3KooWEeezCpJauUmWw3zfgEtYzhZTc5LgukQYtGTMaZfzgVfE \
/dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30351/p2p12D3KooWHq5j9tLdZEu4tnr6ii2k33zp5DCoKREQ6KzuabC9Gihu \
/dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30352/p2p/12D3KooWQ8iTGLH98zLz9BZmq5FXDmR1NytDsJ2VToXvcjvHV16a \
/dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30353/p2p/12D3KooWNWNptEoH443LVUgwC5kd7DBVoNYwQtJh6dp4TQxUsAST
```

The WILT parachain bootnodes:

```bash=
--bootnodes \
/dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30360/p2p/12D3KooWRPR7q1Rgwurd4QGyUUbVnN4nXYNVzbLeuhFsd9eXmHJk \
/dns4/bootnode.kilt.io/tcp/30361/p2p/12D3KooWDAEqpTRsL76itsabbh4SeaqtCM6v9npQ8eCeqPbbuFE9 
```

### Benchmarking (optional)

To enable benchmarking, the collator must enable the benchmarking feature from a new build of the `kilt-parachain`. 

> ***Don't use this binary for running a collator!***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***Don't use this binary for running a Collator!***
```

```bash=
cargo build --release -p kilt-parchain --features=runtime-benchmark
```

> The benchmarking can be run on to compare your hardware to our reference hardware. At the moment, we have benchmarked our Runtime on an AMD Ryzen 7 1700X with 64GB RAM and a NVMe SSD. After you executed the benchmarks on your Server you can compare the weights to the official weights. Lower weights are always better.

Reviewer: Can we remove the use of you. I would rather have it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The benchmarking can be run to compare hardware against the referenced hardware. At the moment, we have benchmarked our Runtime on an AMD Ryzen 7 1700X with 64GB RAM and an NVMe SSD. After executing the benchmarks on a Server compare the weights to the official weights. Lower weights are always better.
```

The commands to excute the benchmarking can be found [here](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/mashnet-node/tree/develop/runtimes/spiritnet/src/weights) inside each file.

Below is an example of the `pallet_balances`.

```bash=
./target/release/kilt-parachain \
benchmark \
--chain=spiritnet-dev \
--execution=wasm \
--wasm-execution=Compiled \
--heap-pages=4096 \
--extrinsic=* \
--pallet=parachain_staking \
--steps=50 \
--repeat=20 \
--output \
 ./runtimes/spiritnet/src/weights/parachain_staking.rs \
--template \
 ./.maintain/weight-template.hbs
```

## Sync Data

> Before you can author blocks with your collator, your node needs to fully sync up with the blockchain. Depending on which chain and the size of it may take a number of minutes to several hours maybe even a day. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before a Collator can author blocks, the node needs to fully sync up with the blockchain. Depending on which chain and the size of it may take a number of minutes to several hours maybe even a day. 
```

More details can be found at the [Polkadot network](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/maintain-guides-how-to-validate-kusama#synchronize-chain-data)

## Session Keys

Once the chain has fully synced. The collator will need sessions keys to begin collating on the network. The session keys are important for collating within the network. A Collator can call a RPC to check whether the account has session keys with the following calls `hasKey` and `hasSessionKeys` in `author`.

![](/img/chain/author-hasKey.png)

**The Session keys associate a collator node with an account on KILT**

### Generate Session Keys

There are two ways to create the session keys. We recommend using the polkadot apps, but the session keys can also be created manually.

#### Option 1: Curl command

Running a remote node, a Collator can use the following command to rotate the session key.

> WARNING: you should not be able to run this command from a remote machine, since the RPC endpoints must not be exposed!

Reviewer: The use of 'you' here makes sense.

```bash=
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id":1, "jsonrpc":"2.0", "method": "author_rotateKeys", "params":[]}' http://localhost:9933
```

#### Option 2: Polkodat.js apps & Rotate Session Keys

> Fist you need to connect to your node using the polkadot apps. For that you need to use ssh port forwarding. The RPC endpoints must not be publicly available!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, a Collator needs to connect to a node using the polkadot apps. For that, the Collator need to use ssh port forwarding. The RPC endpoints must not be publicly available!
```

> You can forward the RPC port using `ssh -L 127.0.0.1:9944:127.0.0.1:9944 <user>@<server>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RPC port can be forwarded using `ssh -L 127.0.0.1:9944:127.0.0.1:9944 <user>@<server>`.
```
